the subtle art of not giving a fck - mark

. kebenaran yang paling besar adalah sesuatu yang paling tidak ingin didengar

. suffering is biologically useful. It is nature’s preferred agent for inspiring change 

. we lose the benefits of experiencing healthy doses of pain, a loss that disconnects us from the reality of the world around us. 

. Life is essentially an endless series of problems, 

. The solution to one problem is merely the creation of the next one 

. Happiness comes from solving problems (don't avoid the problem, to be happy we need something to solve)

. life is like you can't win if you don't play

. stars doesn't compare it self to another, they just shine



your're not special



i once knew aguy we'll call him jimmy

jimmy alwasy had various business venture gping. on any give nday, if you asked him what he was doing, he'd rattle off the name of some firm he was consulting with, or he;d decibr a promising meical app he was loolong for angel investors to fund or he;d talk about some charity event he was supposed to be the keynote speaker for or how he had an idea fo r a more efficient type of gas ump that was going to make him billions. The guy was always rolling, always on, and if you have him an inch of conversational daylight he;d puverize you about how world-spinning his work was, how briliant his latest ideads were and he;d name-drop so much it felt likey ou were talking to a tabloid reporter

Jimmy was all positivity all the time. alwasy pushing jimself alwasy working and angle -aa real go -getter whatever the fuck that means.

the catch was that jimmy was also total deadneat--all talk and no walk. stoned a mahority of the time, and spending asmuch money in bars and fine retaurants as he did on his "business ideas: jimmy was a proffessional leech, libing off his family's hard-won money by spinning them as well as eberyhody else i inthe city on false ideas of futere tech glory, sure someimes hhe'd put in some token effort or pick up the phone and cold-call some bigwid and name-drop until he ran out of names, but nothing ever actually hanppened, Non of these ' venture' ever blossomed into anything 

yet the guys kept this up for years libing off girlfruends and more and more distant relative well into his late twenties nad the mos screwer up part was that jimmy felt good about it. he had a delusional level of selfcnfidence, people who lauged at him or hung up on hum were, in his mind, "missing the opportunity of their lives" i people who called him out on his bogus business ideas were "too ignorant and inexp" to understant his genius. people who pointed out hi deadbeat lifesttyle were'jealous' they were 'haters' who evied his succes


choose your struggle
if i ask you, “what do you want out of life?” and you say something like “i want to be happy and have agreat faimly and a job i like” your responds is so common and expected that i doesn’t really mean anything.
 everybody enjoys what feels good, everyone want to live a carefree, happpy and easy life to fall in love and have amzing sex and relationships, to look perfect and  ake money and be popular and well-respected and admired and a total baller to the point that people part like the read sea when they walk into the room. everybody wants that. it’s easy to want that

 a more interesting question that most people nver consider is “what pain do you want in your life? whatt are you willing to struggle for? because that seem to be a greater determinant of how our live turn out.

for ecample, most people want to get the corner office and make aboatload ofmoney — but not many people want to sufefer through t sixty hour workwewks long commutes obnoxious paper work and arbitrary corpporate hiearachies to ecape the confines on a infine cubicle hell, 

most people want to have great sex and a awesome realtionship but not everyone is willing to go tgrougt tge tought conversation, th awakward, silences, the thurt feeling and the emotional psychodrama to get there. and so they settle. they settle wonder “wht if?’ for tears until the question mophss from what if into what else. wnad hwne tht llawyers gog home and the alimony checks is in the mail, they say what for? if not for their lowered standars eme expectations twenty years prior then whatfor

because happiness requires struggle, ut grow from problems joy dosen;t just sporut out the ground like daises and rainbows real serious lifelong fullfillment and meaning have tot be earned thorough the choosing and managfaing struggles,

wheterher you suffer from axtuett r loneliness or mangaging of our struggles, whether uyou suffer from axienty or loneliness or obsessive compulsive disorder or a dickhead boss who ruins half of your waking hours everyday, the solution lies int the acceptance and active engament of that negative exp. not the aboidance of it, not the salvation from it.

people want an amazing physique, but end up with one unless you legimately appreaciate the paint and phycall stress that cme with living inside a gym for hour upon hour, unless you love calculating and calibrating the fiid you eat, planning your ife outin tinny plated0sized portions.

people want tot start htier own business, but you don’t end up a succefull entrepreneur unless you find a way appreciate the rish, the uncertanty. the repeated failures,t the insane hours devotred to something that may earn absolutely nothing


people want a parner, a spouse, but you dintt end up attracing someone amazing without appreciating the emotional turbulence that comes wiht weathering rejection,  building the sexual tension that never get;s released and taring blankly at a phone that never rings, it;s part of the game of love, you can;t win if you don;t play.

what determines your succes isn’t “what do you want to enjoy?” the relevant question is “what pain do you want to sustain?” the paht to happiness is a path full of shiteaps and shame, you have to choose something you can have the easy question. and prerrty much all of us have a similiar snwer.

the more intersting question is the pain. what is the pain that you wan to sustan? that the heard question that matters,t he question that wull actually get you somewhere, it’s the question that can change a perfpective, a life. it’s what makes me me and you you it’s what defines us nad separates us and ultimately brings us together.


emotion evolved for one specific purpose to help us live and reproduce a little bit better. that's it
they're feedback mechanism telling us that something is either likely right or likely wrong for us-nothing more, nothing less.

mush as the pain of toucing a hot stove teaches you not to touch it again, the sadness of being alonet teaches you not to do the thing that made yo feel so alone again. emotions are simply biological signal design to nudge you in the direction of benefical change.


look idont mean to make light of your midlife crisis or the fact that your drunk dad stole you boke when you were 8 yp and you still haven't gotten over it, but when it comes down to it, if you fell crappy it' because your brain is telling tou that there;s a problem that;s unaddressed or unresolved. In other words, negative emotions are a. call to action. when you feel them, it;s because you;re supposed to do something. 

Positive emotions, on the other handm are reward for taking proper action.
When you feel them, life seems simple and there is nothing else to do but enjoy it. Then, like verything else, the positive emotions go away, because more problem inevitably emerge.

Emotions are part of the equation of our lives, but not the entire equation. Just ebcause somthing feels good doesn't mean it is bad. emotions are merely signposts suggestion that our neurobiology gives us, not commandments.. therefore, we should alway trust our own emotion. In fact, i velieve we should make a habit questioning them,

Many people are taught to repress their. emotions for various personal, social or cultural reasons--particulary negative emotions. dasly to dent one;s negative emotions s to deny many of the feedback mechanism that help a person solve problems, as aresult many of theres repressed individuals struggle to deal with problem throughout their lives. and if they can;t solve problems thenthey can't be happy, remember, pain serves a purpose.

but then there are those people who overidentify with theiremotions. everything is justified for no other reason that they felt it, "Oh ibroke your wundsuked but i was really mad; i. could'nt help it" or "i dropped out of school and moved to alaska just because it felt righ." decision-making based on emotional intuition without the aid of reason to keep in inline. pretty musch always sucks. you know who bases their entire lives on their emotion? three-year-old kids. and dogs. you know what else three tear old and dogs do? shit on the carpet.

an obsession and overinvestment in emotion fails us for the simple reason that emotions never last. whatever makes us happy today will no longer makes us happpy tomorrow, because our biology always need something more. A fixation on happnes inevitably amounts to a never-ending pursuit of "something else" -- a. new house, a new relationship, another child, another pay raise, and despite all of our sweat and strain we end up feeling early similiar to how we started: inadequate.

Psychologists sometimes refer to this concept as the "hedonic treadmill" the idead that we're always working hard to change our life situation, but wea ctully never feel very different.

this is why our problems are recursive and unavoidable . the person you marry is the person you fight with. the huse you buy is the house you repair, the dream job you take is the hob tou stress over. everyhing come with an inherrent sacfrifice-wjatever makes u feel good will also inevitably make us efek bad, what we gain is also what we lose, what creaes our positive experience will define our negative experience .

this is difficult ill to swallos, we like tge idead that there;s some form of ultimate happines that can attained. we like the idead that we can alleviate all of our suffering permanently. we like the idead that we can feel fullfilled and satisfied with our lives forever. but we cannot